The temporary confusion of the table was entroning over the monogamy transcripts to Mr.
Saul Horowitz of the committee staff, who accepted them to have the check.
Many will come to our ear.
The chair would like to begin as is accustomed by welcoming our guest to the committee room.
He seemed to be here and even unusually large numbers today and consequently this admonition,
perhaps should be voiced and even stern or tone.
To question you that we have a standing rule of the committee that there are to be no
manifestations of approval or disapproval of any time and any time during the courses of the
here. The uniformed officers and the trained clothesmen in the audience have instructions from
the committee to remove immediately from the room without any further notice from the chair.
Any of our guests to violate the terms by which you enter the room namely to refrain from
multiple manifestations of approval or disapproval. They will remove you politely but it will be done
immediately and we hope it will not be necessary and I'm sure it will not.
As we concluded the morning session, Council Jenkins was engaged in the direct examination
of Roy Colm and Council Jenkins will continue now with his direct examination.
When that is concluded be it this afternoon or tomorrow evening he will then take off his hat
and begin the direct examination and he is due over all the Dr. Jackal and Mr. Hyde.
Mr. Colm and we recessed to them and now I was examining you with respect to the
events of October 14th. At which time you together with certain members of your staff
were we the second day of the Army and Mr. Hyde.
As I will call on you have recounted in some detail and I'm not sure whether you have concluded
or not. Certain events leaving up to the meeting of October 14th which you said were insignificant
to the events of October 14th. Have you not concluded with recounting those events?
That's right though I think I was about to conclude the file serving
incident by my continued file. I have concluded to call on them now and conclude that the
statements you were making have the time with this committee respect.
Yes. Anyway it became very apparent that the call and file had been stripped and stripped
of the very information which we wanted. Between the time we had seen it out at Fort Monmouth
and the time Mr. Adams or members of the staff my think it was Mr. Adams himself had delivered it
to our staff for use in the course of the executive session. We took the matter up with the Army right
then and there after it became clear that the material had been stripped from the file.
Senator McCarty. How was positive it was that I went over and talked to Mr. Adams.
Checked. There we go. Senator McCarty Mr. Adams I don't know how much he said I told him that
the material was just missing from the file. Period. We had a copy of it. We knew what happened
in there and it wasn't there now. Senator I went back and reported to Senator McCarty.
The senator was considerably disturbed about it and he asked me to make a statement for the record
in the presence of Secretary Steven and Mr. Adams indicating that the committee had been
imposed upon to the extent that vital information in the Coleman case which happened in the file
has been stripped by somebody in the Army before the photos of a copy was delivered to us.
I made that statement at Senator McCarty's direction there. It sure and it has followed.
I'm reading from page 642 of the minutes of that date. Mr. Coleman and by the way Aaron Coleman
was on the stand. Mr. Coleman and I was addressing myself as the senator's direction to Secretary Steven.
Mr. Secretary we want to call your attention to the fact that at this time we were down in
the moment and the Army made available as it has and has gotten and has had all government agencies
to personnel files not the loyalty and security files but the personnel files of various people
under investigation. We assumed the file of Mr. Coleman and took Coltonet's note from us and as
a matter of fact some documents were of very great interest and we made verbatim copies of them
and that is taking the files with us and bringing them back here. They asked us over at
moments if we would let them make photos that and they would have their records complete. We agreed
to that and when the photos got to life we found the files had been stripped of some of the most
relevant documents. It so happened that some of the documents of which we had made verbatim copies
were missing. We wanted to call out the irritants. In the case of the Coleman file
there had been removed from all the documents indicated the search of his home by the security
and intelligence division and the fact that he had been suspended and the fact that these
classified documents had been removed by him from the evidence-fignal laboratory and found
in his house. I might say with reference to the word suspended after these documents,
Coleman with Coltonet's documents they suspended him for ten days and then put him right back
very wide in the secret radar laboratory. So I made that statement to Jenkins. Thomas
achievement and Mr. Adam on October 4th at the Direction of Federal Department. Before
getting away from Coleman you stated that he was suspended for ten days and then reinstated.
What did he later suspended? He was suspended after investigation after that.
The statement that I might say Mr. Jenkins there is also a lot of detail on that case.
There have been an attempt, a recommendation as I understand it by the security officer at
moment on more than one occasion to have Coleman suspended which has been rejected. Until
General Watten came along and removed the security clearance until he was finally suspended.
Mr. Coleman did you release the statements that you have just released from my memoranda?
Are you a child? We did not on that occasion. But the business is just a six-year-old army.
Oh yes, I'm just to have him. Yes, Mr. Lieutenant McArthur wanted it to be right on the
record and wanted them to know that we were making a record of the fact that this file which
has been represented as a complete file has been stripped and stripped of just what we wanted from.
The insured was the signature of the position of the time that he hadn't been handed a phone
about to me. I get that about it or what we wanted was out of the file. But the explanation
is that all of them is Mr. Steven Drainy. What else can make you do the army?
Think you would expect to be a late shipping event file on Coleman. I already called up that time.
Mr. Steven said nothing. I don't think the other said anything about it. Mr. Hatton
forced us after him. I think it bailed for a later. Instead, that the file had been stripped
and his office by some of his withdrawal had supported him. By some of his Indians.
And his office, I didn't get that information, Mr. Adam Greenford, the people who worked for him as his
Indian. Indian, Indian. And he said that the file had been stripped by some of his Indians.
No, he had to be fired by whom and he said that he was driving us out by whom.
Did he indicate whether or not it was fixed? Did this consent or not? His direction?
No, sir. He did not indicate that. That's awesome. By key implied it had not been done,
which is consent and added direction. Did he hear me? The explanation is the way he was in the
instance of that file. Yes, he told us the explanation of what the given was because of
Coleman information. The part we were interested in, could he have considered either personal
information or as loyalty security information. And if the loyalty and security information,
a case could be made after the fact that it has been put in the wrong file. It didn't belong in
the first NL file, but belonged in another file. So that it was stripped out of the personnel file
before the personnel file was given with by the theory that it should not have been in there
in the first place. I pointed out to Mr. Adam that the case has been treated back at that time
as a personnel matter. And not as a loyalty security matter, but the information was properly
in the file that it had been there for some years. And I made it pretty clear that it was quite
obvious to us the reason it had been stripped out was to stop us from finding out that Coleman
had been caught with these documents and that no action has been taken to remove and
caught by him as a part of it. We got a letter from Mr. Adam, a couple of days later.
I think two or three days later, not letters in the record here stating that,
essentially as I said here, that the information should not have been in the file.
It was admitting that it had been stripped from the file, but saying that it would be
construed as loyalty information, that's why it was stripped from the file. But since we found out
that it was stripped from the file and we knew what was in it anyway, they would give us what
they had taken from the file. And they did give it to us, which of course we had had copies of it
already. Has that letter been here before you knew? Yes, that was in just a week,
across the family, Mr. Steven Dormister. I think it was in just seasons about it and that letter was
for those that are in the record. Now, Mr. Coleman, you stated prior to the move to the state,
that there were two significant events of obstacle-booking. You have related to only one of them?
Yes, sir. Mr. Johnson, you can take into another country to share this through the lecture now,
trying to sign in and send them a call and let the hands,
the few minutes in connection with the Senator William Memorial Services on the throw at
a tennis table. Well, seven minutes to now. Mr. Coleman, I will now excuse to tell the members
of this committee what the second event of obstacle-booking was. The second event is the
association was the appearance of Major General, first the commanding general at fourth
month before the subcommittee. That was in the night session.
Did he not go in the wrong position? Just about that time. Yes, there he gave probably the most
important testimony of the whole investigation. As he was told, as the testimony given the
general on the medical issue, Mr. Coleman was there any unfortunate events of courage?
Yes, sir. Now, what was that? The way it happened was that General Martin was called in
before the committee as the commanding general at fourth-mindment, so it's no more about all this
than anyone else. He testified and, if the Jenkins E, were there about the whole situation of
security risks and people of timing and affiliation up his mind, that's why Senator McCartney.
Then Senator McCartney and Mr. Anderson, Mr. Kennedy were put in no turn. The secretary has left
during the morning session. I don't know where he went. Mr. Anderson was there.
At an evening session, that was an evening session. Mr. Anderson was there,
especially in the tail of that day. I believe it to be the very session.
General Martin was questioned by Senator McCartney about the fact that the security risk
through the assault of suspending very recently, people with timing and affiliation,
people with connections with Rosenberg, people with patient secret documents out of the radar
laboratory, General McCartney wanted to know why. It has taken so long to get them out of
these secret radar laboratories. I think he said to General Martin, General I can see it's only
been in the last few months. He's been able to do anything about it. General Martin has no turn.
It is not in the last few months. I have been trying for a year, but it is only in the last two
or three weeks that I have been able to do something about it. General Martin went on to make
clear and respond to questions that it was close to the action of the truck committee
and conducting its investigation that these security risks were finally gotten out of the secret radar
laboratory. General Martin had received cooperation from his superior only when
Senator McCartney and the FUF committee entered the field and began looking into the matter.
So, did that general Martin just as matter that he did sir and Senator McCartney maybe
have a record of that testimony? I do sir.
They will.
Well, it will be.
The last thing in the Laws and FFM that was very significant was Senator McCartney truck
General Martin has the why of law that only in the last two or three weeks that the
act of action has been taken. Why it's possible? Action by the FUF committee. Why is it
an investigation by the FUF committee to do something which it's not sure if it's done a long time before?
General Martin, I might say, did not think particularly anxious to go into the action. He finally
let it stand just about this way. He said something to the effect. I know that very well,
Senator and I could tell you, but please bear in mind I worked for Mr. Stevens and I had better
tonight. I have that testimony right?
Why would he put Senator McCartney?
I don't believe he was. It was obvious that he did not want to be in the position of the
critical office of Stevens and the administration then in the Army and I don't believe he was
pressed further on that point.
I told you whether or not Mr. Adams can read just that information to the Secretary of the Army.
I'm sure he did.
Are any other significant events of a civil force-teach-shitting life on which charges made by
you and Senator McCartney against Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams?
Yes, I might say this Mr. Jenkins, I have the particular excerpt from General Martin's
testimony right here. I might suppose it speaks very well for itself.
It is your, it is your, it is your, yes sir.
You noted that there may be no misunderstanding, whatever with respect to the testimony of General
Martin on that occasion. I would like to do that.
We need Mr. Collins.
Thank you sir.
The Chairman, meeting Senator McCartney.
Let me see if we can ask some questions that will not put you on the spot as far as violating
the regulations concerned. Can we phrase the question this way?
Would you say that since you have taken over and especially over the past six months,
you have been working to get rid of the accumulation of security risk in the signal squad
and that you have suspended a sizable number and you are working throughout getting rid of
all of those who now consider royalty or security risk. We've got the eight states.
General Martin, that is a question. I will answer yet.
But don't go back six months. Let us go back.
The last two weeks of effective results have been in the offings in the last two weeks.
I have been working for the last 21 months trying to accomplish what is being accomplished in the
last two weeks. The Chairman, I think that covers that. So like you would say that in the
past couple weeks, you are getting some effective results. General Martin, absolutely that we have
not gotten for the last four years. The Chairman, and you have the complete cooperation of the
Secretary of the Army and this I understand. General Martin, absolutely, and things are moving.
The Chairman, could you tell us why it is only in the last two or three weeks that you are getting
to be effective results? General Martin, yes, one I have seven or nine. I know that so well,
but I am working for Mississippi.
Now, after that testimony, Mr. Jenkins, let me ask you a question now, Mr. Homefeel brother.
Up to that time, as you ever heard anything, I was referenced to Mr. Holmes,
the leading of General Martin of his command, the Secretary of the Army, not a word.
Not a word. Now, if you sometime later, sometime later, learn of such a proposed
basis like this. So now, we will get to that sometime later on. I had enough to see you start
the makeup statement. I was going to address myself to that very point.
Answer this testimony was given. I think the next day, Mr. Adams indicated that he was not
to throw happy about it and that General Martin, that he was not pleased with General Martin,
that was on October 15th. I believe that was around the 15th or 16th.
And you recount as nearly as possible precisely what Mr. Hatham said. He said,
then, and he said many times later, the touch of government, Mr. Jenkins, why? That he thought that
he thought that General Martin had talked too much, that General Martin had no right to put
the ceiling down his thoughts and what Senator McCarthy knows that a type of action in the
investigation has come only after Senator McCarthy and this committee had entered the picture.
And he was very much annoyed at General Martin from that point on.
Who would Mr. Adams make those statements? He's calling to make him my nose.
Senator McCarthy. Oh, yeah, he knew that Mr. Adams was very unhappy.
There they are. Now, Mr. Kohn, is there anything you have significant as of the 14th and 15th
of October? Nothing within my own personal knowledge, sir. There is another significant item that
will be testified to by someone else. Shall we take now to the 19th of October's
I would like to tell the committee Mr. Kohn, what for Kirdom, October 19th, the snails, the
Peasant Mains, upon the issue of this conversation on the stopping of the investigation, life.
Sometime prior to October 19th, I think over the weekend before, I told John Adams that I was going
to go down to Fort Leinmas that I was going to accompany Senator McCarthy. Some other staff
members might be going with us. I believe I told them that Mr. Rainbow, the very able assistance
to Senator Durkson and the Bob Jones, the very able assistance to Senator Potter, we're going
to go down to represent Senator Durkson and Senator Potter. But we were going to go through the
evidence signal laboratory to see just where Aaron Coleman has been working. We wanted to look
at the security setup and we had plans to talk to a number of witnesses down there. In other words,
Senator McCarthy decided it would lead everybody's convenience to have some harmless
pot worked on Senate Fort Leinmas. Mr. Senator, I believe you're right, Mr. Secretary.
Senator, we were going down without any regard to Mr. Stevens on the throughout of the
story. Mr. Adams either told me back or in a subsequent conversation, told me that he had told
Mr. Stevens and that Mr. Stevens was likewise planning to strip down the Fort Leinmas and
told it would be a very nice thing if we could all go down there together. And would I
pass out along to Senator McCarthy and give him a drop of Senate? I communicated with
Senator in some way or other. He said he had no objection at all to going down with Mr.
Stevens and then anyone that Stevens wanted to bring along. I reported that back to Mr. Adams
and the now famous trip of October 20 to Fort Leinmas was arranged.
Well, there was nothing served by Mr. Adams to you, with respect to having prepared a
hope to release to be given the post. I'm not a kid yet. How are you, Mr. Davis?
Yes. No. I'm a little bit more respect for October 20.
On October 19, as I recall, I was down here in White. I might say to the circumstances
straight, Senator Lamont at that time was presiding in the chairman of a subcommittee,
the Office of Committee, which was conducting hearings on the plot of a communist firing.
The plot of communist firing had played in causing various officials of the United States government
back a few years ago to actually deliver money play that the United States Treasury Department
and the United States Mint chose the Soviet government. If none of the money was presiding in that
investigation here in London and conducting open hearings showing the pattern of communist
infiltration tonight in the Treasury and State Department, I believe, in how these
communists and those two departments had used pressure to get our government to agree to shift
for the first time in history the money play from the United States Mint over to the Soviet
government. They were money played for occupation current theme journalists. We were all working
to a greater or lesser degree assisting Senator Lamont in the preparation for executive sessions
and public hearings in that case. It became obvious that not all of us could go up to force
amendments. The part of the staff would say and help the Assemblyman ministerial for Senator Lamont,
who had come back, I know, from South Dakota to conduct these hearings. We agreed that I would
go up to my Mr. that Mr. Rainbow and Mr. Jones representing Senator Dertian and Senator Potter
would come along and we advise Mr. Adams of just who would be in our party. Mr. Carr,
as I recall it did not call but stayed and worked at the hearings with Senator Martin.
Mr. Adams, I was down here on Monday the 19th. Mr. Adams,
telephone and that is where the press release first came on.
Now, Carr just what stood by Mr. Adams to give respect to the press release with
whom he will please. As I recall Mr. Adams,
totally for the first time on the morning of October 19th that he was preparing a press release
which he wanted Senator McCarthy to issue down as Fort Monument the next day.
He told me that I don't recall his words. He said, I think that he had a rough draft or made some
notes and what he wanted Senator McCarthy to say and he would like to read that to me over the
telephone. I listen and he read something to me. He was a copy of what he read to you,
which called no. We have not had in this committee room a copy of what he first read to me.
Do you remember the camera of the document he read to you? I remember the tenor very well.
He said to the committee when he was smart. The tenor of it was that Mr. Adams wanted
Senator McCarthy to say publicly in the next day at my minutes that this stuff committee was going to
fill out of the investigation of Fort Monument and wait for you to see Mr. Adams.
Have you ever promised to do so? No. Have you ever promised to do so? Never.
Did Senator McCarthy do your knowledge ever promised to bow out?
I was up for Fort Monument in 30th. Do you think he'd go over to the Army? No.
Did you know why Mr. Adams prepared such a document Mr. Cole?
I think the reason, sir. But what did you think was the read he wanted?
You know, Mr. McCarthy so announced publicly and I will be bound by that announcement.
That's the key in the committee. We're just going to stop investigating the Fort Monument situation.
What's the guy that you made to him when he raised that stuff in which he was received the
amount of Fort Monument? He read and a couple of sentences and what we do have here, sir,
such as Mr. Adams wanting to send him a copy to say I have every confidence that Secretary
Stevens and the Army will move immediately and effectively to continue the investigation
all that he undertaken by the stuff committee. And then again, Mr. Adams,
said I believe that our recent hearings have brought their names, meaning those of the people
who are timing this record. Out and that's from here forward. The Army should be able to finish
the job we have started. That's what he wanted himself to put. He wanted Senator McCarthy to say.
When I heard it, my question was, what was your reply to Mr. Adams when you heard him?
My reply at the start was that I was telephone Senator McCarthy and repeating him in
the best I said what Mr. Adams wanted to say, that I would make a very fair presentation of
what Mr. Adams wanted him to say, but that I had, that didn't make Mr. Adams to have any confidence
that Senator McCarthy would say. Did you tell the phone Senator McCarthy in a private
manner? Did you recall the Senator's reaction? I do.
I will without using all of his words with gold.
And by way of proper exposition, you tell him that's good what Mr. Sanders did.
The answer was no. The answer was no.
I can say this much more. The Senator said he had no intention of stopping the investigation.
He didn't see why he should be called upon to say that he was trying to do it.
And that he would not say so. I called Mr. Adams back and I said that as I had predicted to him,
the answer was no and that the Senator was not a full receptive to Mr. Adams.
Yes.
Now you know, I might say this again. I said I went on to tell him that Senator McCarthy
had said since we're going to hold executive sessions, since we're going to hold public hearing,
there doesn't seem much sense in my coming out and say what's saying we're not going to do it.
I told that to Mr. Adams and I said that the Senator said that this would be an act or
how could he say he's going to stop the investigation when he was very clear on the subject that
he was going to hold executive sessions and public hearing. And what's the panel? There's a
matter of fact to meet you from time to time there after whole booths,
private and public sessions we did. Now, Antroy, so Mr. Adams with Senator McCarthy and said that he
wouldn't say we were going to stop and that's affirmatively he had every intention of continuing
and that he would hold executive sessions and public hearing. Mr. Adams said something to the
effect. I'll put that in there too. That you're going to hold Senator McCarthy is going to hold
executive sessions and public hearing. Suppose I add that onto him.
Maybe that'll look better. I don't recall what if any reply I made to that,
but I do recall what happened later that afternoon. We'll want to happen later that day to me.
Because I recall it, I was walking through three, five, seven. I haven't spotted the look up
and see what was going on but there was some kind of a committee hearing on the way or some kind
of a meeting. And a messenger from Mr. Adams offered to him to the door with an envelope from me.
It contained a draft of a statement which Mr. Adams wanted Senator McCarthy to make publicly the
next day. As such I could figure out, it was just what Mr. Adams had read to me originally.
With the exception of the fact, he had added on a paragraph at the end saying,
after having said it to the beginning, Senator McCarthy was spotted in that
investigation. Mr. Adams added on a paragraph at the end saying, but executive sessions and public
hearing would be held. So it seems to have felt what the item should be said and added on when I
saw Mr. Adams at a number of things. He was kind of those. He knew one was a clarification. He was the other.
I don't know just what it was, sir, but many, but he, he did work in the opinion of conversation.
Oh, it's not the answer. It's not the answer. It's not the answer. It's not the answer.
It's not the answer. It's not the answer. They were. And Mr. Adams was produced when we were
clicked and we came about this a draft of a statement and I have no reason to doubt that
it's a statement. He sent over that afternoon that contains the language I read. I believe having
when it's right and wanted to put it in the McCarthy to say, quote, I believe that our recent hearings
have brought the names of these the versions out and that from here forward, the army should be able
to finish the job we have thought. He then goes on to say there are still some witnesses under
the penalized subcommittee and they will be heard later this week in New York and executive sessions.
Following these hearings, it is our burden plan to hold open hearings on the same subject,
probably in New York. So you haven't one far in your ass. But you wanted to send it and say we're
stopping it. And the next paragraph, he tried to embody the sentence, but that made it clear that we
were not stopping it. We were going to continue. And if I get to just the words you have said,
that's a original statement. Maybe that you were marrying out to the speech, putting your investigation
that's on so many words. And that was where you are on the phone. And you convey it to the senators,
message to him that he can be expected to continue. And when it was the life statements were
added. That's my recollection. They've been not documented without those life statements with the
code. I will ask you whether or not you can choose that as a network or any claims from the part of
the army. I wish you could give them to me to add on that too.
then
you